README.md, before:

# Auto-M4B
This container is mostly based on the powerful [m4b-tool](https://github.com/sandreas/m4b-tool) made by sandreas  
This repo is my fork of the fantastic [docker-m4b-tool](https://github.com/9Mad-Max5/docker-m4b-tool) created by 9Mad-Max5. 

This is a docker container that will watch a folder for new books, auto convert mp3 books to chapterized m4b, and move all m4b books to a specific output folder, this output folder is where the [beets.io audible plugin](https://github.com/seanap/beets-audible) will look for audiobooks and use the audible api to perfectly tag and organize your books.

## Intended Use
This is meant to be an automated step between aquisition and tagging.
* Install via docker-compose 
* Save new audiobooks to a /recentlyadded folder.
* All multifile m4b/mp3/m4a/ogg books will be converted to a chapterized m4b and saved to an /untagged folder  

Use the [beets.io audible plugin](https://github.com/seanap/beets-audible) to finish the tagging and sorting.

## Known Limitations

* The chapters are based on the mp3 tracks. A single mp3 file will become a single m4b with 1 chapter, also if the mp3 filenames are garbarge then your m4b chapternames will be terrible as well.  See section on Chapters below for how to manually adjust.
* Right now book folders with nested subfolders will be moved to a /fix folder for manual filename/folder fixing.  It should be possible to modify the auto-m4b-tool.sh script to automatically prefix the subfoldername and move the files up a level, let me know if you know how to do this.
* There's no options or config file.  Things like cpu cores, the actual m4b-tool run command, and directories would be nice to have in a config file.  Right now it runs like a black box (tho default settings should be all you need).
* The conversion process actually strips some tags and covers from the files, which is why you need to use a tagger (mp3tag or beets.io) before adding to Plex.


## Using torrents and need to preserve seeding?
In the settings of your client add this line to `Run external program on torrent completion`, it will copy all finished torrent files to your "recentlyadded" folder:
* `cp -r "%F" "path/to/temp/recentlyadded"`

## How to use
This docker assumes the following folder structure:

```sh
temp
│
└───recentlyadded # Input folder Add new books here
│     │     book1.m4b
│     |     book2.mp3
|     └─────book3
│           │   01-book3.mp3
│           │   ... 
└───merge # folder the script uses to combine mp3's
│     └─────book2
│           │   01-book2.mp3
│           │   ...
└───untagged # Output folder where all m4b's wait to be tagged
│     └─────book4
│           │   book4.m4b
└───delete # needed by the script
|
└───fix # Manually fix books with nested folders
|
└───backup # Backups incase anything goes wrong
      └─────book2
            │   01-book2.mp3
            │   ... 
```

This script will watch `/temp/recentlyadded` and automatically move mp3 books to `/temp/merge`, then automatically put all m4b's in the output folder `/temp/untagged`.  It also makes a backup incase something goes wrong.

## Set up the Container

### docker-compose.yml
```yaml
version: '3.7'
services:
  auto-m4b:
    image: seanap/auto-m4b
    container_name: auto-m4b
    volumes:
      - /path/to/config:/config
      - /path/to/temp:/temp
```
### Options
To change any options you will need to exec into the docker container. By default only vim text editor is installed, you will need to do a `apt-get update && apt-get install nano` if you want to use nano to edit the scipt.  
* `docker exec -it auto-m4b sh -c 'vi auto-m4b-tool.sh'`  

To change the amount of cpu cores available for the converting change the `--jobs` flag in the m4b-tool command.  

More m4b-tool options https://github.com/sandreas/m4b-tool#reference

```sh
auto-m4b-tool.sh

# variable defenition
inputfolder="/temp/merge/"
outputfolder="/temp/untagged/"
originalfolder="/temp/recentlyadded/"
fixitfolder="/temp/fix"
backupfolder="/temp/backup/"

...

m4b-tool merge "$book" -n -q --audio-bitrate="$bit" --skip-cover --use-filenames-as-chapters --audio-codec=libfdk_aac --jobs=4 --output-file="$m4bfile" --logfile="$logfile"
```

Commit message:

Added "How to manually set Chapters"

README.md, after:

# Auto-M4B
This container is mostly based on the powerful [m4b-tool](https://github.com/sandreas/m4b-tool) made by sandreas  
This repo is my fork of the fantastic [docker-m4b-tool](https://github.com/9Mad-Max5/docker-m4b-tool) created by 9Mad-Max5. 

This is a docker container that will watch a folder for new books, auto convert mp3 books to chapterized m4b, and move all m4b books to a specific output folder, this output folder is where the [beets.io audible plugin](https://github.com/seanap/beets-audible) will look for audiobooks and use the audible api to perfectly tag and organize your books.

## Intended Use
This is meant to be an automated step between aquisition and tagging.
* Install via docker-compose 
* Save new audiobooks to a /recentlyadded folder.
* All multifile m4b/mp3/m4a/ogg books will be converted to a chapterized m4b and saved to an /untagged folder  

Use the [beets.io audible plugin](https://github.com/seanap/beets-audible) to finish the tagging and sorting.

## Known Limitations

* The chapters are based on the mp3 tracks. A single mp3 file will become a single m4b with 1 chapter, also if the mp3 filenames are garbarge then your m4b chapternames will be terrible as well.  See section on Chapters below for how to manually adjust.
* Right now book folders with nested subfolders will be moved to a /fix folder for manual filename/folder fixing.  It should be possible to modify the auto-m4b-tool.sh script to automatically prefix the subfoldername and move the files up a level, let me know if you know how to do this.
* There's no options or config file.  Things like cpu cores, the actual m4b-tool run command, and directories would be nice to have in a config file.  Right now it runs like a black box (tho default settings should be all you need).
* The conversion process actually strips some tags and covers from the files, which is why you need to use a tagger (mp3tag or beets.io) before adding to Plex.


## Using torrents and need to preserve seeding?
In the settings of your client add this line to `Run external program on torrent completion`, it will copy all finished torrent files to your "recentlyadded" folder:
* `cp -r "%F" "path/to/temp/recentlyadded"`

## How to use
This docker assumes the following folder structure:

```sh
temp
│
└───recentlyadded # Input folder Add new books here
│     │     book1.m4b
│     |     book2.mp3
|     └─────book3
│           │   01-book3.mp3
│           │   ... 
└───merge # folder the script uses to combine mp3's
│     └─────book2
│           │   01-book2.mp3
│           │   ...
└───untagged # Output folder where all m4b's wait to be tagged
│     └─────book4
│           │   book4.m4b
└───delete # needed by the script
|
└───fix # Manually fix books with nested folders
|
└───backup # Backups incase anything goes wrong
      └─────book2
            │   01-book2.mp3
            │   ... 
```

This script will watch `/temp/recentlyadded` and automatically move mp3 books to `/temp/merge`, then automatically put all m4b's in the output folder `/temp/untagged`.  It also makes a backup incase something goes wrong.

## To Manually Set Chapters:
1. Put a folder with mp3's in the `/temp/recentlyadded` and let the script process the book like normal
2. In the output folder ( `/temp/untagged` ) there will be a book folder that includes the recently converted *.m4b and a *.chapters.txt file.
3. Open the chapters file and edit/add/rename, then save
4. Move the book folder (which contains the m4b and chapters.txt files) to `/temp/merge`
5. When the script runs it will re-chapterize the m4b and move it back to `/temp/untagged`

## Set up the Container

### docker-compose.yml
```yaml
version: '3.7'
services:
  auto-m4b:
    image: seanap/auto-m4b
    container_name: auto-m4b
    volumes:
      - /path/to/config:/config
      - /path/to/temp:/temp
```
### Options
To change any options you will need to exec into the docker container. By default only vim text editor is installed, you will need to do a `apt-get update && apt-get install nano` if you want to use nano to edit the scipt.  
* `docker exec -it auto-m4b sh -c 'vi auto-m4b-tool.sh'`  

The script will automatically use all CPU cores available, to change the amount of cpu cores for the converting change the `--jobs` flag in the m4b-tool command, but do not set it higher than the amount of cores available.  

More m4b-tool options https://github.com/sandreas/m4b-tool#reference

```sh
auto-m4b-tool.sh

# variable defenition
inputfolder="/temp/merge/"
outputfolder="/temp/untagged/"
originalfolder="/temp/recentlyadded/"
fixitfolder="/temp/fix"
backupfolder="/temp/backup/"

```
